Welcome back for another 5 minute movie recap.
Today, I'm going to give you an overview of the
2017 Irish horror drama film called 'The Cured'.
There will be Spoilers ahead,
so please proceed with caution.
Previously, a pandemic known as
the Maze Virus spread over Europe,
converting its victims into violent, zombie-like
monsters. Ireland took the worst of the damage.
After a treatment was identified, 75 percent of
individuals who were afflicted and could be caught
were treated and cured of the virus. The remaining
25% have shown to be resistant to the treatment.
The Cured and the Infected are the two
factions. Despite widespread worries
that keeping the Infected alive may lead to
another epidemic, they are kept in captivity.
Senan and Conor are two Cured patients
who have been placed in the same facility.
Sergeant Cantor, their 'Rehabilitation Officer,'
has little trust in the Cured's ability to
reintegrate into society without additional
bloodshed, and treats them with contempt.
Senan meets up with Abbie, his sister-in-law,
who has a small boy named Cillian.
Abbie inquires about her husband, Luke,
Senan's brother, who remains missing.
Though it is revealed in one of Senan's many
flashbacks that Conor infected Senan, who then
killed Luke, in the house where Abbie still lives,
Senan claims ignorance of his fate. The Cured have
vivid memories of their experiences when infected,
and many of them suffer from post-traumatic stress
disorder. Conor, a former lawyer with political
ambitions, is unable to find work and is rejected
by his family as a result of his diseased
behaviour. He creates the Cured Alliance,
an underground movement dedicated to reclaiming
the civil freedoms that the Cured have lost.
Despite the claims of a leading virologist that a
stronger vaccination for the Infected is virtually
created, the government plans to euthanize
the 25% (5,000 patients) who are infected.
Senan gets a job at the hospital where the
Infected are confined and notices that they don't
seem to care about the Cured. The never-infected
suspect loudly that the Cured would love to see
another epidemic of the Maze Virus since they
would be mostly resistant to its effects.
This is a source of political
conflict in the society.
Conor tries to persuade Senan to join the
Cured Alliance. Senan first refuses, but
after witnessing society's animosity toward the
Cured, he joins the gang on an arson operation.
Conor maintains the targets are empty houses, but
when a soldier is murdered, Cantor accuses Senan
and Conor. Cantor confronts Abbie at her home
and informs her that the Infected are connected
telepathically and form groups like predatory
animals. He claims that the vaccination does not
eradicate the Cured's predatory tendencies, and
that they are still dangerous. He shows Abbie a
snapshot of Conor and Senan exploring the streets
together before becoming sick. In the photo,
Conor looked to be guiding Senan in deadly deeds.
Later, Conor visits Abbie and tacitly acknowledges
that he and Senan killed her husband when they
were both sick during the outbreak's early days.
Senan is confronted by Abbie, who kicks him
out. Conor has no remorse for what he has
done in the past, and what he is doing now,
Senan realises. Senan aids Cantor in a sting
operation to get Conor when he confesses to the
arson in public; however, Conor murders Cantor
and flees. The Cured Alliance devises a strategy
to liberate the Infected from their captivity.
The Infected move to the streets, murdering and
infecting fresh victims while wreaking havoc.
The Irish Army has been sent. Senan comes upon
Abbie, who is desperately attempting to locate
Cillian at his school. Senan saves Cillian but is
attacked by Conor, who thrashes him mercilessly.
Conor is shot by a soldier, but he manages to
flee. Cillian gets bitten and afflicted as Senan,
Abbie, and Cillian return to their
home. Senan, knowing he is immune,
grabs Cillian and promises Abbie that he will
keep him safe until a new vaccination is ready.
A news report subsequently states
that order has been restored,
despite the fact that 8,000 additional sick
persons have been captured. Promotional posters of
Conor (as the Cured Alliance's voice) may be seen
during the announcement. Some Infected have gone
into hiding, and the government is once again
considering euthanasia for the resistant 25%.
Senan retreats into hiding with
Cillian, who has been infected.
If you like this movie, click the link in
the description below to watch it today.
I hope you have enjoyed this video. Hit the
like button and subscribe for more videos.
Have a great day ahead.